there are two types of Linus tech tips
viewers the ones who can't remember
trackball mice and the ones who are old
like me that's right kids
in the late 90s these bizarre pointing
devices were almost as popular as a
standard ball mouse you know the kind
that had its balls down below but then
fell into obscurity as optical and laser
mice gained dominance but our track
balls bouncing back well Logitech logy
Logitech is giving it a shot
meet the MX ergo their first trackball
in nearly a decade and the video is
brought to you by tunnel bear which
makes it easy to privately and securely
browse a more open Internet to Tritonal
bear for free go to Tunnel bear comm /l
tt
[Music]
at 260 grams the Ergo is twice as heavy
as your typical Mouse but that's fine
like other trackballs it is not used by
sliding it around the desktop instead
you actually move the pointer by
spinning this optically tracked ball
with your right thumb the ergo is
beautifully designed the soft touch
rubber finish that covers the entire top
of the Mouse gives it a premium look and
as for the feel well it can leave your
hand a little hotter than you might be
used to
but we're inclined to overlook this
because with the base set to its upright
position
reducing pronation or scissoring of the
arm bones it positions the user's hand
similarly to a vertical mouse it is
extremely comfortable I guess that's
probably where the name comes from with
that said was good for the wrist isn't
always good for the thumb moving the
cursor especially a long distance
downward feels kind of like doing thumb
crunches unless you reposition your hand
let's take a look at the buttons the
left and right clicks are rated for 10
million and are otherwise pretty darn
standard these back and forward buttons
are both easily accessible with your
index finger as long as you don't have
child sized hands like I do and the
scroll wheel is rubberized move smoothly
and it comfortably tilts to either side
now we've got a couple of more
interesting buttons this one toggles
precision mode which like a sniper
button on a mouse shifts the sensitivity
for precision pointing and this one is a
logitech easy switch so that you can
switch easily haha I see what you guys
did there between devices with one of
them using the included 2.4 gigahertz
dongle and another one connected via
bluetooth and you might actually find
yourself doing just that track balls are
great for travel because they require
very little area to use ergo and
airplane trade table or armrest will
actually work nicely for much more
comfortable mousing compared to trying
to use a touchpad and thanks to the
Argos four month battery you won't even
need a charging cable with you
fun fact though if it does die it boasts
a full work day's worth of battery after
just one minute of charging okay then -
that's all well and good but what is it
like to actually use it well if you've
never used a trackball before you might
actually be surprised at how easy it is
to convert our writer James went into
this thing with zero experience and
after a few days reported it's become
second nature and some actions like
middle-click scrolling are actually even
easier with a trackball with that said
it's not like there wasn't a slight
learning curve and it has some clear
disadvantages if you use a multi display
setup or an ultra wide monitor for
example you might find yourself having
to crank the sensitivity just to cover
all of that desktop real estate and
while okay that's true of any mouse on
the trackball in particular this really
made accurate pointing on fine things a
feat of concentration since it does tend
to jump a bit when being turned very
small amounts the solution as it turns
out though is to turn on mouse
acceleration which how about that it
turns out that setting does have an
actual use though you will want to
disable it while you're gaming on your
trackball weight gaming on a trackball
yes that's right you can use a trackball
for gaming and it actually doesn't suck
either our resident csgo guru IDI was
actually up and pointing noobs in no
time though he did say that he was a
little disappointed in the ergos
tracking speed which may prove to be
insufficient for players who like to
whip their mouse for quick turnarounds
okay then Linus I'm interested you got
me but why should I buy then the $100
iMac sir go over Logitech's own
competing wireless trackball the m5 70
is the precision button easy switch and
the smoother ball action really worth
the extra $50 maybe not but they are
nice to have and the 20 degree tilt
really is a lot more comfortable and
surely there is no solution that exists
to prop up the m5 70 okay but in all
seriousness though does the MX ergo
belong in your future
well there is still room to improve a
stepless scrolling mode on the wheel a
low latency Lightspeed connection higher
endurance switches and the dedicated dpi
switch would all go a long way towards
making this feel like a true flagship
maybe a g-series trackball is on the
horizon but with that said it's really
good if you're a track baller it's easy
to recommend as for if you're not well
it is the kind of thing you do have to
experience on your own but Logitech has
a 30-day return policy so if you're a
little ball curious then there's nothing
to lose from giving it a spin speaking
of giving something a try
thanks to crunchyroll for sponsoring
today's video
crunchyroll is the site created by anime
fans for anime fans and we have got a
great offer for you you guys can get 30
days of crunchyroll premium for nothing
by signing up at our link in the
description
that'll give you the most current
episodes of new shows straight from
Japan like Knights and magic and my hero
academia season 2 with all the content
on the site professionally subtitled
coming out in October our food war
season 3 and black clover and if you
enjoy the many benefits of premium like
1080p streaming getting new episodes of
shows straight from Japan within an hour
of their premiere and being able to
stream anytime anywhere from a variety
of devices
like your phone tablet or game console
you can sign up for crunchyroll premium
for only 695 a month so I head over to
crunchyroll.com slash Linus and sign up
today so thanks for watching guys if
this video sucked you know what to do
but it was awesome
get subscribed hit that like button or
check out the link to where to buy the
stuff we featured in the video
description also down there is a link to
our merch store which has cool shirts
like this one as well as dad you train
our community forum which you should
totally join